In the last video we looked at how services
are used to inject data into components.
Inside our component class there is a method
named constructor which is where we need to
inject our service.
The constructor is a special method that is
executed when a new instance of the class
is being created.
Even if we don’t explicitly define a constructor
within a class, there is still a constructor
that’s made, it’s just not seen.
We use constructors to perform any initial
setup for new objects.
They can optionally take parameters but they
can’t return any values.
Lets work through a few quick examples to
get better aquainted with the constructor.
We always put the constructor directly below
any pre-defined properties.
Your going to see the constructor used a couple
of different ways in online examples.
The first and more common way, is you’ll
see the constructor used to assign a private
variable to some dependency injected service
and routing.
It will look like this, we set a private variable
that contains an underscore to the service
or routing instance we imported.
The other, less common way of using the constructor
is to initialize default property values.
So you might see booksInStock set as a public
variable with a type of number.
Then inside the constructor’s curly brackets,
the value is defined.
Notice how we’re not returning anything
but only assigning values.
This is equivalent syntax, but to me it makes
more sense to define booksInStock once if
you already have a default value in mind.
Lets now work through an example of a Service
in our app by building a new BookService.